Alright next, let's make a delete button,
so when you click it will remove the item.
There's actually kinda two ways you could go about this,
you could either just delete the item entirely
or you could change the status of the item
to like deleted or that's called a soft delete
when people are building these things,
sometimes people wanna undelete things,
while you still need record of the item,
even though it was deleted.
In our case I'm gonna show you how to actually delete it
but you could also in make this in update status as well.
So we'll, let's go into our components folder
and we'll make a new file called DeleteProduct.js,
And I'll say export default function, DeleteProduct
and then that will take in the idea of the product
that needs to be deleted as well as some children
because this is gonna be a button
where you can pass anything.
It's just really just a functionality in the button.
From that will return a button.
You have to give a type of a button.
Get outta here.
And then inside of that, let's just render out children.
We'll go into our product.js component
and right below where we have the edit button
we'll give ourselves our delete product component.
And then inside of that would say delete.
I've got to auto import this sucker.
Boom.
Let's see, there we go.
Imported it.
And now you see we've got
this delete button showing up there.
The reason why we did this children is that
you can literally put anything you want
inside of this button.
So if you want it to feel like a paragraph tag
and another button, I don't think that's possible
but a span, something like that,
You totally can put whatever you want inside of it.
So it's just like a, a little bit flexible.
It's a flexible button.
So it won't bring it back and just say, delete.
Next we need to pass the ID of the item.
And that is product.ID.
When somebody clicks this button,
you generally with deleting buttons,
you generally want to make sure
that they actually wanted to click it
because if you accidentally click something like that
it could be a bad day.
And there's kinda two ways.
I'll do a delete button.
First I'll just pop up a confirm and that's what we'll do.
But also I have on my own course platform
if I'm deleting somebody or if I'm refunding somebody
what happens is have to click the button once
and it says, click it again.
And you click it twice.
It says you click it twice once more
and you click it three times, it says, all right
we're about to do this, click it one more time.
And we'll actually refund the person.
You click it a third time.
And what that is doing
is it's maintaining a click count of state.
And then only once you've clicked it four times
does it actually run the function?
And that's just a little bit of safety on my end
before you could also throw up a model that says
are you sure to do that?
There's a lot of different approaches
but definitely recommend putting something in place.
So on our case, we're gonna give ourselves
an onclick event on the button.
And when somebody clicks
we just run a little inline function right here.
We're going to say if actually here, I'll just do it.
Confirm, are you sure you want to delete this item?
Say, watch this.
So now when you click it,
this is are you sure you wanna delete it
when you press okay or cancel?
That will return either true or false
depending on what you have clicked.
So we can wrap that in an if statement,
if confirm are you sure you want to delete this item?
Then you wanna go ahead and delete it.
So if someone's presses cancel, then it doesn't matter.
Then nothing will happen on that clicK.
So let's just log out deleting.
Open up our dev tools delete.
Are you sure?
Cancel, nothing happens, delete, okay.
And then we actually get the console log
showing up in there.
This is showing up because it says no restricted globals.
Let's look at that rule real, real quick.
I will probably even configure this to allow for con confirm
because nothing wrong with using a confirm.
It's a really a nice UI that's built right into the browser.
The reason why some people don't like it is that
it will block your entire UI as well as block parts
of your app from running.
But in this case it's not a big deal.
So what we need to do is delete this item.
Then we need to write a mutation
that will actually delete it for us.
So we'll go up here
and we will make a new graph QL query to delete the item.
So I'll say delete
Product
Mutation is equal to GQL Bactec.
So we've got to go ahead and import that.
Import boom.
Sometimes it doesn't auto import maybe that one,
that one worked.
And then in here we need to write our mutation
So we say mutation is,
again, I'll just take the name from here.
And that takes in one variable.
We'll call it ID.
Has a type of ID and is required.
And then from there, like what graph QL method
do we need to run while we can go to our backend here,
go to our API Explorer and let's write a new mutation.
Mutation here.
What does it delete product?
There we go.
Right?
And you can get the docs for that.
By going into the docs here, search for delete product.
Here we go.
It's the mutation takes in an ID.
So here we'll say delete product
pass the ID that was passed as a variable.
And then from that we just return it.
Actually here, you can take a look when you delete it
it returns the product itself,
and it will give you any of the fields
of the deleted item that you wish to have.
So we could query the ID
and the name of the deleted product.
Then we'll go down here and run the mutation.
So we'll go right before our return.
I'll say const
Delete product and comma.
And we want to actually, we don't need to destructure
any of the loading or I'll distructure loading.
You could also get the error from there.
I'll show you another way to get the error as well.
Let's cover all of our bases say muse mutation.
And then you pass it, your delete product mutation
as well as any variables that it needs, right?
So you pass it the actual mutation itself
and then any variables that it needs.
And in our case, it just needs an ID variable.
So we can pass the second argument here and say
if the variables that it needs is the ID property
which is simply the ID that was passed into this component.
And that will just shorten it to just ID again.
I know I say it's a hundred times but look
if it's same thing, I don't want you to be confused.
Save it.
It goes back to just ID cause the property
and the variable name are the same thing.
So now we have this mutation function here.
It's loaded with the mutation, as well as the variable.
We can go here and simply say delete product.
And if we want to catch any errors
that happen with that product
in some cases you could destructure the error right here
and that will give you a value.
And you could say, if there's an error
then you could display it.
But in our case it's just a button.
So what do you do when there's not enough UI
to show an error.
There's a couple options that we have.
You could pop up a little toaster
in the bottom and sometimes you see these little blue
or whatever items in the corner
and they pop up and say, items successfully deleted.
Or you can just throw it in an alert box
and it was successfully deleted.
So we're gonna do that.
We'll say delete product.catch.
If there is an error
we will simply just alert the error.message.
Say that something went wrong.
Now what do we got here?
Syntax, error, unexpected name, found dollar sign.
We goofed something up,
here we go.
We've got to pass the ID prop as the ID variable.
Let's do it with these air max right here.
I'm gonna open up my dev tools.
Just to make sure everything works.
Actually one more thing is this button
we can say disabled is equal to loading.
And that will just disable the button
while it's in the background
cause if you click it multiple times,
you're gonna fire off multiple requests
and we don't want that.
So let's go ahead and click it.
Are you sure?
See for a split second
that button went gray and went ahead and deleted it.
And then we ran the delete product.
Now the product is still there,
but I believe if I were to refresh the page
that should now be gone.
Boom, okay.
That item has gone.
So in the next one we're gonna do is we're gonna figure out,
how do I remove that item?
And there's a couple of ways we could do it.
I've shown you in the past how we can refresh the query
but I'm gonna show you how to go directly
into the Apollo Cash and yank that thing out.